# What is Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD)?

Database is absolutely an integral part of software systems. To fully utilize ER Diagram in database engineering guarantees you to produce higpch-quality database design to use in database creation, management, and maintenance. An ER model also provides a means for communication.

# When to draw ERD Diagrams?

So, when do we draw ERDs? While ER models are mostly developed for designing relational databases in terms of concept visualization and in terms of physical database design, there are still other situations when ER diagrams can help. Here are some typical use cases.
Database design - Depending on the scale of change, it can be risky to alter a database structure directly in a DBMS. To avoid ruining the data in a production database, it is important to plan out the changes carefully. ERD is a tool that helps. By drawing ER diagrams to visualize database design ideas, you have a chance to identify the mistakes and design flaws, and to make corrections before executing the changes in the database.
Database debugging - To debug database issues can be challenging, especially when the database contains many tables, which require writing complex SQL in getting the information you need. By visualizing a database schema with an ERD, you have a full picture of the entire database schema. You can easily locate entities, view their attributes and identify the relationships they have with others. All these allow you to analyze an existing database and to reveal database problems easier.

- Entity Attributes
  Also known as a column, an attribute is a property or characteristic of the entity that holds it.
  An attribute has a name that describes the property and a type that describes the kind of attribute it is, such as varchar for a string, and int for integer. When an ERD is drawn for physical database development, it is important to ensure the use of types that are supported by the target RDBMS.

- primary key
  Also known as PK, a primary key is a special kind of entity attribute that uniquely defines a record in a database table. In other words, there must not be two (or more) records that share the same value for the primary key attribute. The ERD example below shows an entity 'Product' with a primary key attribute 'ID', and a preview of table records in the database. The third record is invalid because the value of ID 'PDT-0002' is already used by another record.

- foreign key
  Also known as FK, a foreign key is a reference to a primary key in a table. It is used to identify the relationships between entities. Note that foreign keys need not be unique. Multiple records can share the same values. The ER Diagram example below shows an entity with some columns, among which a foreign key is used in referencing another entity.

### reference
- Learn more : https://youtu.be/o1DWU8KH0b4?si=oDVJnmxamfY93beP
- Website to create ERD : https://drawsql.app/
